---
title: "ICRA-2016: My first exposure to the prestigious International Robotics Conference "
author: achu
layout: post
permalink:
categories:
  - IEEE
excerpt: "The experiences I had at ICRA-2016."
---


I had the priceless opportunity to attend the IEEE sponsored International Conference on Robotics and Automation [ICRA](https://www.icra2016.org) at Stockholm. I was one of the three member team "Autobots" that won the Humanitarion Robotics Challenge (HRATC).

 The excitement was immense- it was my first conference, it was my first international trip, and moreover, the excitemnt of meeting eminent robotics researchers, attending their talks and seeing the cutting edge research happening worldwide.
 
 The conference started on May 16th. Somehow, we missed our connection flight from Dubai to Stockhom and ended showing up late. 
 I missed the very first talk I was looking forward to, 'HUMANS 2.0', by Dr. Hugh Herr. He is a badass guy who made himself a pair of prosthetic limbs after he lost his limbs in a climbing accident. Moreover, he now uses his limbs for his advantage to climb much higher. I was always looking forward to meet him.

On the first day, we didn't enter any sessions since we were bit late. We completed the registration and grabbed ICRA T-Shirt, bag, a proceedings pendrive and 
 a couple of booklets from the front desk. Straight from there, we went for a quick visit to the exhibition hall, to see all the cool robots being showcased. It was the first time in my life seeing such a large number of awesome robots together in a same room. It doesn't happen often. we clicked a couple of pics. 
 
 At the entrance, there was Fetch Robotics, we posed for a photo with Fetch and Freight.
 
 [pic IMG_7340.JPG]
 
 They gave us a toy model of their robots too. Turned out it is a USB drive loaded with the ROS packages to simulate their robots. Pretty cool.
 [IMG_20160517_155308_HDR.jpg]
 
 There was lot more robots, which I have seen on internet. It was like heaven.
 There was baxter
 [picof baxter ]
 ABB Yumi
 [pic]
 Kuka iiwa
 Youbot
 REEM
 
 The next day also, the first surprise for me was from Fetch robotics. We met Melonee Wise. She was very friendly, we talked for a while and we took a selfie
 [IMG_20160517_101059.jpg]
 
 It was also the day of our challenge, but we didn't had much to do. The challenge was happening in Poland and the video was streamed to the ICRA location.The code was already uploaded and we had noting else to do except watching patiently the slowly moving robot on the screen. There was issues with gps localization since the atmosphere was cloudy in Poland. 
 
 Once the challenge is over  I left to explore the sessions and other challenges. Notably there was Airbus Shopfloor Challenge
 
 [pics of arbus]
  There was a team of smart students from India. Coincidentally they were also staying at the same hostel we were in.
  [pic of airbus indian team]
  
  
 I spend the rest of the day attending paper presentation sessions. It was the first time in my life I am attending such a session and that too at the prestigious ICRA.
 
 
 